Capstone Project Proposals:

Proposal 1: 
Findings from Millennial Datasets

Last year one of the biggest banking firms, GOLDMAN SACHS came up with a study on Millennial (people born after 1980’s) and conducted a deep statistical study on their habits, spending pattern etc. However, GS did a wonderful task but it is too big of a dataset and I believe more findings can be taken out of it, for instance, millennial circle of interest, likings and a lot of other stuff. This type of study can be used by any Profit/Non profit organisation in creating products targeted specifically at millennial or educational reforms if any respectively. The dataset which is to be used for this is available at PewResearchCenter website http://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2011/06/15/the-millennials/.


Proposal 2: 
Odd/Even Program Impact on pollution levels in Delhi

Climate change being one of the biggest threats to our society right now, however there are other problems as well which are indirectly related to increasing pollution levels and one such case appeared in capital city of India, Delhi where an EVEN/ODD Car program was launched by state government to see the positive effects of less vehicles rolling on the streets. This study is relevant to any country with similar problems and if successful, many trends can be taken out of it like timings of vehicles on road, whether even days are more polluted or odd, women drivers vs male drivers and their effect in overall pollution (heat, sound etc). The dataset is not yet decided but can be taken as a subset of Delhi Municipal data.


Proposal 3: 
Understanding the currency of Future - BITCOIN

Bitcoin is a digital payment system (peer-to-peer) where transaction happens from sender to receiver directly without an intermediary.
These network are more like a network graph or transaction graph and are stored in a public ledger known as block chain. The interesting thing is bitcoin has it’s own index and has grown very fast in last couple of years which indirectly means a lot of financial activity is happening at this front and now major retailers like CVS, Pizza stores etc have also started accepting bitcoin as a currency. After knowing so much and so less about bitcoin, it is a very potential Machine Learning/Data Science problem whether the currency is living up to its name or is it being abused by anti social elements. This is an interesting problem as there is no classified data available as such but just a network graph of transactions, hence many machine learning algorithms/practices can be applied on this publicly available data and generate useful findings which can be used further by any organisation who are planning to incorporate bitcoin in their accepted form of payments. The dataset for this is available from Stanford and is a mix of cvs files of blockchain, edges , nodes etc.